In the rise of deep learning,
one of the most important ideas has been
an algorithm called batch normalization,
created by two researchers,
Sergey Ioffe and Christian Szegedy.
Batch normalization makes your
hyperparameter search problem much easier,
makes your neural network
much more robust.
The choice of hyperparameters is a much
bigger range of hyperparameters that work
well, and will also enable you to much
more easily train even very deep networks.
Let's see how batch normalization works.
When training a model, such as logistic
regression, you might remember that
normalizing the input features can speed
up learnings in compute the means,
subtract off the means
from your training sets.
Compute the variances.
The sum of xi squared.
This is an element-wise squaring.
And then normalize your data
set according to the variances.
And we saw in an earlier video how this
can turn the contours of your learning
problem from something that might be very
elongated to something that is more round,
and easier for an algorithm like
gradient descent to optimize.
So this works, in terms of
normalizing the input feature values
to a neural network, alter the regression.
Now, how about a deeper model?
You have not just input features x, but
in this layer you have activations a1,
in this layer,
you have activations a2 and so on.
So if you want to train the parameters,
say w3, b3, then
wouldn't it be nice if you
can normalize the mean and
variance of a2 to make the training of w3,
b3 more efficient?
In the case of logistic regression,
we saw how normalizing x1,
x2, x3 maybe helps you train w and
b more efficiently.
So here, the question is, for
any hidden layer, can we normalize,
The values of a, let's say a2,
in this example but
really any hidden layer,
so as to train w3 b3 faster, right?
Since a2 is the input to the next layer,
that therefore affects your
training of w3 and b3.
So this is what batch norm does,
batch normalization, or batch norm for
short, does.
Although technically, we'll actually
normalize the values of not a2 but z2.
There are some debates in the deep
learning literature about whether you
should normalize the value before
the activation function, so z2, or whether
you should normalize the value after
applying the activation function, a2.
In practice,
normalizing z2 is done much more often.
So that's the version I'll present and
what I would recommend you
use as a default choice.
So here is how you will
implement batch norm.
Given some intermediate values,
In your neural net,
Let's say that you have some
hidden unit values z1 up to zm,
and this is really from some hidden layer,
so it'd be more accurate
to write this as z for
some hidden layer i for
i equals 1 through m.
But to reduce writing,
I'm going to omit this [l],
just to simplify
the notation on this line.
So given these values, what you do
is compute the mean as follows.
Okay, and all this is specific to some
layer l, but I'm omitting the [l].
And then you compute the variance
using pretty much the formula you
would expect and then you would
take each the zis and normalize it.
So you get zi normalized by
subtracting off the mean and
dividing by the standard deviation.
For numerical stability, we usually
add epsilon to the denominator like
that just in case sigma squared turns
out to be zero in some estimate.
And so now we've taken these values z and
normalized them to have mean 0 and
standard unit variance.
So every component of z has mean 0 and
variance 1.
But we don't want the hidden units to
always have mean 0 and variance 1.
Maybe it makes sense for hidden units
to have a different distribution,
so what we'll do instead is compute,
I'm going to call this z
tilde = gamma zi norm + beta.
And here, gamma and beta are learnable
parameters of your model.
So we're using gradient descent, or some
other algorithm, like the gradient descent
of momentum, or rms proper atom, you would
update the parameters gamma and beta,
just as you would update
the weights of your neural network.
Now, notice that the effect of gamma and
beta is that it allows
you to set the mean of z tilde to
be whatever you want it to be.
In fact,
if gamma equals square root sigma squared
plus epsilon, so if gamma were
equal to this denominator term.
And if beta were equal to mu,
so this value up here,
then the effect of gamma
z norm plus beta is
that it would exactly
invert this equation.
So if this is true,
then actually z tilde i is equal to zi.
And so by an appropriate setting
of the parameters gamma and beta,
this normalization step, that is,
these four equations is just computing
essentially the identity function.
But by choosing other values of gamma and
beta, this allows you to make the hidden
unit values have other means and
variances as well.
And so the way you fit this
into your neural network is,
whereas previously you were using
these values z1, z2, and so
on, you would now use z tilde i,
Instead of zi for
the later computations
in your neural network.
And you want to put back in this [l] to
explicitly denote which layer it is in,
you can put it back there.
So the intuition I hope you'll take
away from this is that we saw how
normalizing the input features x can
help learning in a neural network.
And what batch norm does is it applies
that normalization process not just
to the input layer, but
to the values even deep in some
hidden layer in the neural network.
So it will apply this type of
normalization to normalize the mean and
variance of some of your
hidden units' values, z.
But one difference between the training
input and these hidden unit values is you
might not want your hidden unit values
be forced to have mean 0 and variance 1.
For example,
if you have a sigmoid activation function,
you don't want your values
to always be clustered here.
You might want them to have a larger
variance or have a mean that's different
than 0, in order to better take
advantage of the nonlinearity of
the sigmoid function rather than have all
your values be in just this linear regime.
So that's why with
the parameters gamma and beta,
you can now make sure that your zi values
have the range of values that you want.
But what it does really is it then
shows that your hidden units have
standardized mean and
variance, where the mean and
variance are controlled by two
explicit parameters gamma and
beta which the learning algorithm
can set to whatever it wants.
So what it really does is it normalizes
in mean and variance of these hidden
unit values, really the zis,
to have some fixed mean and variance.
And that mean and variance could be 0 and
1, or it could be some other value,
and it's controlled by these
parameters gamma and beta.
So I hope that gives you a sense of the
mechanics of how to implement batch norm,
at least for
a single layer in the neural network.
In the next video, I'm going to show
you how to fit batch norm into a neural
network, even a deep neural network,
and how to make it work for
the many different layers
of a neural network.
And after that, we'll get some more
intuition about why batch norm could
help you train your neural network.
So in case why it works still seems
a little bit mysterious, stay with me, and
I think in two videos from now
we'll really make that clearer.